ten days ago the New York Times had
articles saying that there were
demonstrations in three cities now their
demonstrations in almost every city in
this nation almost every day now
some of the bigger some of them littler
people are getting out on the streets
and moving and the fact that the New
York Times would notice it I mean they
said it would like there were the first
three demonstrations it was just if they
bothered the fact that they would bother
to mention it to have an article about
it have photographs of people
demonstrating this clearly is an
indication that for some reason they're
training a little bit and that reason
may be because of the disastrous
blundering performance of Ronald Reagan
in Iceland and it may be because at the
outset of his Nicaraguan war moving from
phase 1 to phase 2
he was caught out in illegal activities
and we can talk about all of these
things later on when you get to the
point you recall the Vietnam War was
shut down when we got to the point in a
society of where the Walter Cronkite's
and the media began to acknowledge the
mistake the lies and turn on the
administration and forced them put
pressure on them what we're going to
talk about talk about tonight is
thinking on words about Central America
it's about the secret Wars of the CIA
but it's about a lot more things than
that to say the obvious we live in a
beautiful country perhaps in some ways
the most prosperous riches beautiful
country we're all aware of that I fought
in three wars defending this country and
the freedoms that we brag about and all
and just look at this building and what
we're going to talk about the night
Phyllis is not that and it's also not
altogether it's only indirectly about
the good
in the united states and there's lots
and lots of good people unfortunately
it's in human nature to balance out for
good with evil and in this country for
all of the good things we are have and
do we seem determined one way or another
to keep something going that just about
balances out all of the good with
something that it's difficult to find a
better word for than evil if you'll
forgive me everything i'm gonna be
talking to you about tonight is in the
public record already you don't need me
to come here and put it together for you
this this information and one night it's
devastating to a lot of people old time
activists go away a little bit shocked
but what they know they're just having
it all put together at one time and
people are just getting into activity
and awareness have trouble shifting
gears and and adjusting i try to
document it as best I can as I go I have
a bibliography you can go and read for
yourselves
I urge you to do so I'm gonna be telling
you that our government lies a lot about
very important things now obviously
obviously if I'm saying that mr. Reagan
lies I could be the one that's lying and
the only way people can figure out the
truth or have any chance of figuring out
the truth is to get involved go and read
for yourselves and this is very
important the French have a saying them
that don't do politics will be done if
you don't go out and get yourselves
involved then you've got no right to
complain when mr. Reagan grabs you or
your son or your loved one and sends him
down to Nicaragua to open
or to be killed and you don't have any
right to complain really when the bombs
start going off if you haven't gotten
involved now while there's still time to
do something about it what we're talking
about overall is the fact that we live
in a world that has Gradius problems and
selling Caldecott likes to put it our
planet is terminally ill the disease is
the nuclear arms race and it's not a
long-term disease what we're talking
about is the 52,000 soon to be 70,000
nuclear weapons that malfunction all the
time and are in the control of visibly
fallible angry human beings the world we
live in today has the kind of economic
problems that have gotten us into world
wars in the past leaders of countries
leaders of banks have never been able to
balance their checkbooks just like
families they screw it up all the time
they have throughout history and they've
done it again
only this time the opportunity of
resolving the thing by having a war that
reduces you know capitals of countries
and countries themselves to rubble so
you can start over again isn't available
to us because of these 52,000 soon-to-be
70,000 nuclear weapons what I'm talking
about is a world in which the world's
richest country the United States is now
a significant debtor nation in the last
six years our internal debt has gone
from 900 billion to two point four
trillion dollars and we become an
external debtor nation for the first
time since World War one and that's on
that side of the scale on the other side
of the scale we have the third world
debt which is so large that the interest
payments are 40 billion dollars a year
and the countries can't meet those
payments so they have to get loans to
pay the interest on the loans which
means they're double compounding a
problem which means that in ten years
their interest payments will be four
hundred billion dollars a year and they
won't be able to get loans to cover
those payments and when they default
links are going to start
like chase-manhattan the big ones this
is the third world that time law the
Center for Defense Information is
counting about 40 or 50 Wars being
fought around the world today Caspar
Weinberger says one out of four nations
is fighting wars and there's deep
concern that the United States is on the
brink of its next war the Central
American War meanwhile the United States
has established an open policy of
supporting low-intensity conflicts about
the globe
the CIA primarily backed up by the
Defense Department very much by the
administration is running six major
major covert actions Senate Oversight
Committee people tell us and their
debates that leaked it out that the CI
is running 50 covert actions covert
actions interfere with and destabilize
other countries governments this means
simply put that we have a policy of
destabilizing about one third of the
countries in the world today and these
subjects all interrelate the nuclear
arms race conventional war CIA
destabilization they're all supervised
in Washington by the National Security
Council and the rationales and direction
and thrust of energy in these things all
interrelate and that's what I hope to be
able to show you tonight is how these
problems how Nicaragua relates to the
nuclear arms race I begin with my own
specialty which was paramilitary Marine
Corps CIA little Wars secret wars three
wars I was in the Congo dealing with CIA
mercenaries I was up country in Vietnam
in the Angolan operation in 1975 I was
the chief the coordinator chief of the
Angola task force in Washington sitting
on a subcommittee of the National
Security Council managing the war that
was delivering arms loads airplane loads
of arms and mercenaries and to Angola
another lecture another
time we can go into the rationales
because we didn't feel like we were in
in in the process of anything
pathological our rationales to ourselves
was that it was patriotic and Noble and
defending national security and all of
these things when the rationales no
longer worked for me I got out but that
as I say is a different story
Nicaragua of the six covert actions that
we're running around the world these
stabilizations Nicaragua is the most
prominent one it's not the largest one
at least not until very recently
Afghanistan probably was we were
spending hundreds of millions of dollars
in Afghanistan now in Nicaragua it's the
most conspicuous once closer to the
United States closer culturally over a
hundred thousand Americans have gone
down to look and see for themselves the
debate is fairly open we know a lot
about it I've taken myself down there
eight times including just a month ago
because I lecture on the subject to
analyze the covert action from the other
side as opposed to being in Washington
as I was for the Angolan operation where
our rationales were stopping the Cubans
and stopping the Russians you know and
standing up to the enemies in the world
in all of them quite a different thing
when you go down and talk to the
comandante's who are coping with the
thing talk to the people go out and pick
cotton with the people talk to women
who've been gang-raped by men trained in
Florida and put your hands on the nubs
of missing limbs of Maine children quite
a different view than the one I had when
I was sitting in my offices in
Washington the thing we're doing in Iowa
today used to be called covert action
not so covert really in world--all it's
still run by the CIA it's a technique of
destabilization let there be no doubt
this is not my semantics that's what CI
directors call it the State Department
stated purposes that were hitting
economic targets mr. Reagan says the
purpose is to stress out the Sun and
Easter's to put pressure on them to
bring them to
they'll knock off their policies what
you what you're doing is you have a
selected target government and it's
quite whimsical will target somebody
attack them for a while give up on it go
attack someone else we attack China for
a bunch of years in a 1984 mr. Reagan
went there on a big showy trip to
bolster his chances for re-election what
she set out to do to put pressure on
this targeted government is methodically
rip apart the social and economic fabric
of the country sort of the opposite of
the nation-building it's doing your best
to destroy the nation so that when
conditions get so bad you can walk in
and install the government of your
choice or at least forced that
government that's there to come to your
terms and it's worked both ways it's
been done before by the United States
you're setting out methodically to
create conditions where the farmer can't
get his produce to market where children
can't go to school where women are
terrified inside their homes and outside
their homes for the hospitals are
treating wounded people instead of sick
people we're government administration
grinds to a halt for international
capital is scared away and the country
literally goes bankrupt in Nicaragua
this program this United States
government program began officially in
1981 in December when mr. Reagan
allocated the first nineteen million
dollars to the CIA to destabilize
Nicaragua if you want to get a feeling
for what it's all about the Contras
under this program we took these people
who were samosas X Guardsmen not a nice
bunch of people corrupt and brutal and
we put them in Honduras we put uniforms
on their backs and boots on their feets
and guns in their hands and we fed them
and train them and gave them leaders and
delivered them into Nicaragua to
destabilize and we flew in support for
them and we've continued to support them
read the Newsweek article November 7
1982 saying lamenting the fact we're
getting involved once again in the
more ass it said that people were
supporting the Contras were getting
involved with it described him as the
only truly evil totally unacceptable
factor in a Nicaraguan equation it noted
they had no chance of taking power in
Managua so a tad why were we doing it
and it answered his own question by
saying that the purpose was to push the
sandanista government into a more
radical position from which we could
attack it more openly so we set out at
this voice systematically now for five
years they've been blowing up granary
sawmills bridges government offices
schools health centers they mine roads
the ambush trucks they raid farms and
villages there's all kinds of
documentation on this witnesses on the
scene the sabotage manual you remember
the sabotage manual 1983 a CI coming
book with pictures suggesting all the
nice things you can do to gum up
typewriters to burn out the
transmissions in trucks to stop up
sewers to blow transmissions to make us
make a society so it just won't work
assassination is part of this program
assassination of religious workers
teachers health workers elected
officials government administrators and
this one too is documented in 1984 the
assassination manual that the CIA was
using to train it had translated into
Spanish from Vietnamese became such a
political issue that mr. Reagan himself
addressed it in his debates with Walter
Mondale and the presidential campaign
and he himself ascribed the blame to the
CI station Chafin Tegucigalpa part of
this program down there is terror terror
that goes far beyond the hideous things
that are done by certain parties in the
Mediterranean area today that we lament
so much I don't need to come here and
abuse you with a form of verbal violence
but this is what your country is all
about our Klunk
go into villages they hold people out at
night they make the children lunch where
they castrate the father and feel the
skin off his face and put a grenade in
his mouth and full of pen they make the
children watch while they gang-raped the
mother and /or breasts off and sometimes
for variety they switch it around and
make the parents watch while they do
these things to the children this is
nobody's propaganda four thousand people
have been killed this way about figure
published in the New York Times recently
said five thousand mostly women and
children it's been documented in
condemned by over a hundred thousand
American witnesses for peace by the
Presbyterian Church by the World Court
by the Methodist Church by broad
segments of the Catholic Church
mr. Reagan however whatever makes this
man tick
he remains unapologetic he says I'm a
quanto he calls them freedom fighters he
likens them to the moral equivalent of
his founding fathers and the whole world
gasped at this confession of his family
tradition rain for yourself the document
documentation is abundant breathe
culture terror or readability the former
assistant attorney general of New York
State made the conference by dieter I
agreed with the Contras by Christopher
Dickey dick he's a middle-of-the-road
journalist working for The Washington
Post in Central America now he's in
Egypt with Newsweek middle-of-the-road
in his book with the Contras his first
acknowledgement is to express his deep
respect for the men and women of the CIA
so he writes a book that's a pox on both
your houses he doesn't like to send any
stirs but he went on patrol with the
Contras
read what he has to say about them read
witness for peace what we've seen and
heard read the lawyers Commission
Human Rights rate violations of war on
both side read the mascara Indians in
Nicaragua or as some of you have done go
to Nicaragua and see for yourself
propaganda is part of any
destabilization the battle for people's
minds the big target is the American
people turning them against your
targeted country this one began under
Jimmy Carter before mr. Reagan was
president the CIA presented a proposal
to the White House which was approved by
Jimmy Carter that they launched a
propaganda campaign to paint the Senate
East as evil now we'll never know what
the Sandinistas would have done with
that country if we had left them alone
to do it to make their mistakes or
whatever we do know that they abolished
the death sentence we do know that they
released 8,000 guides men that they had
in their custody because they said we
won't jail someone because he belonged
to an organization we have to have
evidence of individual crime we do know
that they launched a broad literacy
campaign teaching every Nicaraguan to
read and write something that samosa and
the United States had not gotten around
to doing and that they built 2,500
clinics trying to get some kind of
health service to every Nicaragua and
that they took as much of the land as
they could without nationalizing they
took the 50% of the land that belonged
to Musa and they began a land reform
program that far exceeds anything that's
been attempted in Central America ever
they also succeeded in the first four
years in office in establishing the
largest economic growth rate of any
Latin American country a phenomenal
record not true anymore because we in
our destabilization has dragged them
down we instead of going in and helping
them build clinics and teaching people
to read and write we label them
totalitarian dictators we claim that
they're building a war machine that
threatens the stability of all of
Central America now they're building an
army the world's richest country is
attacking them
one of the world's poorest countries
attacking them in a war that today is
statistically economically more
important to them than the Vietnam War
was to us with the difference that we
fought the Vietnam War 10,000 miles away
and this war is being fought with
befores inside their own territory but
we say they don't have the right to
build up a force to defend themselves we
claim the justification is that they are
fooling irons into the rebels in El
Salvador but mr. Reagan the State
Department in five years has not been
able to show any flow of arms meanwhile
David McMichaels the CIA analyst goes
public and tells us that they there was
no information inside the CI of any flow
of arms since 1981 and Charlie Clements
goes in and lives with those rebels in
El Salvador for a year and he comes out
and says they're not using communist
weapons they're using US weapons which
they get from the old Salvadorian army
we launched a campaign to discredit
their election we said it's a
totalitarian country they have elections
that are phony and rigged but the
international observer King said these
were the fairest elections they've
observed in Central America a long long
time meanwhile we say the elections and
El Salvador were models to be copied
elsewhere in the world but then the
truth about that comes out finding that
great pinko and Washington senator Jesse
Helms told us the truth about that one
he was ticked off because the CIA had
chosen to sport Duarte instead of his
choice of candidates were bitter though
we Sun otherwise known as blowtorch bomb
for the games he likes to play at night
on people's feet so Jesse Helms used his
influence through the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee to get himself
briefed and then he held a press
conference and he said the CI told him
they had spent 2.2 million dollars and
everything that quotes stuff the ballot
boxes to make sure that dwarf k1 and our
government claiming that the models
become P elsewhere in the world
President Reagan himself and the State
Department NCI propaganda claiming that
the Sandinistas are financing their
revolution by smuggling drugs into the
United States now when I first trade
this thing a couple of years ago I
snorted and said it doesn't make sense
world war with Nicaragua we're trying to
catch them out getting arms from the
Soviet Union in Cuba we're flying planes
wingtip to wingtip over a Nicaragua
photographing everything that comes and
goes how are they going to flow plane
loads of drugs into the United States
but there are other Nicaraguans flying
on planes every day of the week and two
bases in the United States in Florida
Louisiana and Texas where they don't
have to go through customs
he's a Nicaraguan Contras working under
the supervision of the CIA now would I
come before you and suggest that the CI
might ever be involved in smuggling
drugs
heaven forbid made for yourselves read
the book the politics of heroin in
Southeast Asia by Hal McCoy 1972 300
references in his bibliography - every
chapter documenting what he wrote the
United States took over from the French
in Southeast Asia when they were whipped
at the Battle of Dien Bien Phu the
French intelligence officers were in
fact Corsican mafia smuggling the heroin
from Laos and Vietnam and Cambodia and
the CIA took over from them the French
had their own airline the CIA introduced
its air America which at that time was
the world's largest airline by the way
CI proprietary airline flying in arms to
the mayor of Long the mountain yard
people flying back out of loads of
to Hong Kong Bangkok and Saigon the
first target being us GIS and Vietnam
the second market being the United
States itself we claim the sudden ethers
are responsible for the terrorism that
exists in Central America today even
when there's a bombing in Berlin
George suits will go on television and
refer to the country-club of terrorists
in Managua there is terrorism in Central
America for sure and it is not being
done by the Sena Nesmith it's being done
by the United States of America and the
Terrorism is far far hideous than
spraying an airport with bullets are
shooting an old man in the head and
pushing them off a ship we're talking
about mutilation and gang rape and
mutilation of children as a matter of
policy and we're blaming the Sun
aneesa's for misery and there is misery
in Nicaragua today and shortages and
it's clearly not the sign East asphalt
that was the purpose of our program
congressman now can go down there after
five years and come back and they're
doing it on fact-finding trips I was
there you should see the place it's the
pits the socialism doesn't work these
sign Anita's can't run a country it's
the worst place I've ever been to they
have shortages you wouldn't believe and
mr. Reagan could turn the country aid
vote this summer by saying there are
Russians flying planes for the first
time in this hemisphere in history and
we have to do something about it
and I refer you to the November 7 1982
Newsweek article what was the purpose of
doing this the purpose was to push the
Sun and Easter's into a more radical
position from which they could be
attacked more openly so this summer the
Congress passed the contra aid bill 100
million dollars but that's only the
cover if you've been reading the record
coming out of Congress the LA Times
Newsweek magazine others report
the CI has allocated four hundred
million dollars from its contingency
reserve funds for this program meanwhile
mr. Regan has taken 300 million dollars
from famine relief funds marked for
Ethiopia to use in the region to buy
Honduran generals and Salvadorian
generals in Costa Rican paramilitary
police to create an atmosphere of some
sympathy to support our country a
program we're talking about at least 800
million dollars if you add it all up
it's going to come closer to a billion
dollar program we've got to do Nicaragua
meanwhile the United States has budgeted
1.7 billion dollars to support
low-intensity conflict around the world
next year the big ones Nicaragua El
Salvador and Golan Libyan chant in
Ethiopia Kampuchea Afghanistan we have
restructured our military 30,000 troops
now in our rapid deployment force to
fight small wars in the third world this
is the rationale that's taught in the
war colleges that the Congress has
approved and restructuring our military
small wars in the third world slapping
down people who might rise up against
our hegemony we recently added the 8th
Army Special Forces Group the Seventh
Army Ranger Battalion the 4th
psychological operations battalion the
JFK Special Warfare Center and the
California special training Institute
which is teaching administrators and
generals and people in the National
Guard and population control techniques
in this country rain-fed Kaplan's
article kmt news from the boston globe
in july the activities that we're
supporting that we call low intensity
conflict acts of violence in the third
world domestic turmoil drug trafficking
political assassination guerrillas there
the Revolution and Central War the tools
we use in these things
deception lying propaganda economic
sanctions humanitarian assistance aid
for the local police military assistance
intelligence gathering clandestine
operations election rigging small
Special Forces teams and large-scale
military intervention but I submit to
you that only the terminology and the
openness of low-intensity conflict is
new we used to call it covert action
it's been done before the thing we're
doing in a car where today has been done
before once or twice like would you
believe several thousand times
senator Church investigating CIA covert
action in 1975 told us that what he was
finding was that the CIA had been
running several hundred covert actions
per year and it's been in business 40
years and 40 times 300 with being 12,000
so you're talking about several thousand
covert action CI apologists leap up and
say yes but all of these things aren't
glory and bloody and that's true if
that's any excuse you're just bribing a
politician to throw his country's vote
at the United Nations or something like
that but even that is illegal and it
establishes the question of whether or
not the United States has any intention
of functioning in a world in which the
activities of nations is governed by any
kind of rules and understanding and many
of these things are very bloody and deep
and we know about a lot of them dozens
and dozens of them fully documented in
the public record testimony from CI
directors from ingression 'el
investigations from CI officers writing
books from documents gotten out in the
Freedom of Information Act from from
accounts written by journalists from
counts written by victims and you can
read for yourselves just to go through
Indonesia 1965 the see I set out to
discredit the Communist Party by making
it appear that the party was going to
rise up and kill everybody
catching ions with documents that when
they were found it would prove that the
Communists were getting ready for a big
rebellion to rise up and slaughter
people paying politicians speeches
articles in newspapers radio talks to
agitate everybody on this subject on the
threat of the Communist Party until it
flashed and generals were killed they
were me when after the Communists and it
was a bloodbath
the New York Times recorded that they
had killed between 500,000 and a million
and a half people the see I published
two reports one has leaked to the public
through the Library of Congress titled
Indonesian 1965 the coup that backfired
and that was the cover story and
generally it had another report which we
know about because the CIA case officer
Ralph McGehee was custodian of every
port and he wrote his book dead lady
seats and he tells us about it in that
report the CIA said this was a model to
be copied elsewhere in the world because
it had not only broken and effective
eliminated an effective national
Communist Party it had also eliminated
the entire segment of the population
that tended to support the Indonesian
ethnic Chinese and the CIA report
estimated the number of dead at 800,000
and it advocated this to be repeated
elsewhere and that during simply is
Jemison other classic CIA covert actions
that you can go and read about in
further detail Guatemala Brazil deana
Chile to come
Panama Peru Bolivia Ecuador Uruguay all
all of these countries the sea I
organized the overthrow of
constitutional democracy read the book
covert action 35 years of deception by
Gerald Garwood remember the Henry
Kissinger quote when he was being
grilled by Congress after the Chilean
operation in which we overthrew the
democratically elected President
Salvador Allende and killed him and
installed the dictator Pinochet to power
he said the issues are much too
important for the Chilean voters to be
left to decide for themselves
we had long CIA covert action against
China parachuting teams and just like
the Contras that led us directly under
the Korean War where we fought China in
Korea and we had a long covert action
and Vietnam attacking Ho Chi Minh who
made every effort to be our friend until
eventually we manipulated ourselves into
the UNAM war raid the hidden history of
the Korean War
why of stone read deadly deceits by
Ralph McGehee read portrait of a cold
warrior by Joe Smith in Thailand Taiwan
Laos Vietnam Congo and Honduras the CIA
put together standing armies in Vietnam
Congo Cambodia Iran Laos Nicaraguan Sri
Lanka the CI armed and encouraged ethnic
minorities to rise up and revolt in El
Salvador Vietnam Korea Iran Uganda and
Congo the CIA created trained funded the
death squads the Treasury's Treasury
police in El Salvador today the people
that fall people out at night and drive
trucks over their heads the people
responsible for these 60,000 dead
according to Catholic Church reports
they were formed by the CIA under the
Alliance for Progress in the early 60s
and we have testimony before our
Congress as late as 1982 leaders of this
unit first
on the CIA payroll the public safety
program this bears a little bit more
mention because there's a message in it
that's very important for us to
comprehend this is the one that went on
for 26 years with CIA trainers working
with Latin American police to teach them
in the technique of torture you can read
about this one volume written about it
United Nations hearings Amnesty
International hearing eventually our own
Congress getting into it and having
hearings and passing the law and
stopping it
there's the film on company business
that mentions it and the film state of
siege that deals with it specifically
teaching Fortran developing special
techniques of torture and special
gadgets of torture dan matryona
the advocate that became famous because
he was picked up in Uruguay after doing
seven years in Brazil and assassinated
so he got publicity was brought back up
here and given a hero's burial we need
the book if you want to get this all
into one digestible form read the book
hidden terrors by AJ langa professor of
journalism at USC before that he was a
journalist with the New York Times
Mitrione e to teach torture to these
classes would have vector beggars picked
up off the streets he would use them as
guinea pigs in a torture training
classroom but the horror of being of
course that the beggars didn't have any
secrets to tell they couldn't say I'm
sorry stop hitting me here's all the
names you want all they could do is lie
there in screen while people practice
the techniques on them and when they
would collapse doctors would be brought
in to shoot him up with vitamin B and
rest him up for the next class and when
they would die their buddies would be
mutilated they'd be dumped back on the
streets to strike fear into people's
heart a woman who was tortured under
this program in Brazil for two years and
then eventually released from the
international outcry has testified to
these tribunals she said that the horror
went beyond the physical pain and
degradation
she said it tied into the fact that the
people doing the torture were in fact
not raving psychopath had they been she
could have broken mental contact with
them they were very everyday normal sane
people she told about one session in
which she's in this room lying on a
table naked six men doing these
incredibly painful and degrading things
to her body and there's an interruption
the Americans call to the telephone and
the next room on the rest take a smoke
break and she can hear the conversation
and he's saying oh hi honey yes I can
wrap this up in another hour or so and
pick up the kids on my way home and make
sure the ambassador's now the message in
all of this is that we teach ourselves
in our lore in our television in our
films in order to maintain this goodwine
image that we like to have of ourselves
that hideous things are done to other
people by Aryan Gestapo minions or by
Slavic KGB monsters or the latest thing
the missing in action scenario is for
Vietnamese Colonels are doing hideous
things to helpless prisoners the truth
is people do hideous things other people
red-blooded Americans as we call
ourselves they're hideous things to
other people if the society condemns it
if the Congress allocates the money if
the president says it's the right thing
to do then matryona
stable devout Catholic father of four
pillar of the community devoted his life
to torturing people but caused his
government said and thereby by
projection his society that this was a
noble thing for him to
with his life so you look at these
things there's no record cap but you
start you just start trying doodling
trying to see how many people died in
these things these covert actions now
low-intensity conflicts for which were
responsible and I don't mean we're
responsible for every war that happens
in the war world but the things that we
are responsible at we spent millions and
hundreds of millions of dollars to make
them happen how many people died in this
thing it's got to be a million eight
hundred thousand in Indonesia alone four
thousand and Nicaragua ten thousand and
the angle and operation that I was part
of he started multiplying thousands by
thousands and you get grossed millions
then you add in the Korean War which was
a spinoff of the propaganda and horror
of CIA activities and the Vietnam War
two million people died which has
spin-off of a long-term CI operation
getting us into war you're talking about
gross millions of people killed by the
United States and our national security
activity secret Wars and whatnot so then
you say well what kind of people a good
Russian is a dead and Russian you know
there are enemies communists kill me you
don't agree except you start looking at
these operations and you find that we do
not parachute teams into the Soviet
Union to mutilate parents while the
children are forced to watch because
they have a bomb and a big army and they
would perish routines right back into
the United States for different reasons
slightly we don't do these things in
England and France and Germany and
Sweden and Switzerland and Italy etc the
common denominator that jumps out at you
is that these millions grossed millions
of victims are people of the third world
whose governments are not strong enough
to protect them from our depredation
we're talking about people of the
mattoon the mountains of the congo the
jungles of Southeast Asia and now the
hills of northern Nicaragua who have the
misfortune of being born in an area that
we the CI the United States took
chose to target people who couldn't hurt
us if they wanted to and there's no
indication that they wanted to those
people dying down in northern Nicaragua
today 4000-5000 to date they're not
Russian soldiers in our Russian advisors
they're not Cuban soldiers that have
Cuban advisers they're not even by
percentage many Sandinistas mostly
cousins mostly women and children
communists mostly Catholic now and the
question/answer if you'd like we can get
into a subject I have to skip over now
and that's ci running domestic
operations this is thoroughly documented
as well takes a while I'm gonna jump
over it I'm talking about the MKULTRA
program for example drugs sex disease
experimentation on American citizens in
over 200 medical schools and mental
hospitals experimenting with viruses on
people and those viruses later shown to
be closely resembling AIDS virus etc etc
we'll get into that later if you're
interested what we have now is the CIA
running 50 destabilizing for de chord
action destabilizing one-third of the
countries in the world while the United
States is gearing for its next war of a
Central American war I've been analyzing
this and saying it since 1981 when Al
Haig was glowing saying we should put US
troops into Nicaragua he didn't get the
support there wasn't a popular support
the Defense Department wouldn't back him
up so it didn't happen in it he writes
in his memoirs now more and more other
analysts are coming around to my morbid
conclusion which is that the United
States the president government the
present administration has a policy of
trying to get this country into a war to
satisfy its political economic and
psychological needs mr. Reagan had said
in 1983 he would do whatever is
necessary to reverse the situation in
Nicaragua he said we cannot
another Cuba in this hemisphere he said
the Sun in Easter's are a cancer that
has to be cut out and he said in a night
in an August 16 interview with a Mexican
newspaper that his objective is to
overthrow the Senate instance the United
States public opinion is 70% against his
policies down there but he's proceeding
and this feeling of the American people
is encouraging but it's it's a tenuous
thing it's what stopped them from doing
it so far but you can't put too much
confidence in it
President Eisenhower said and did I
think that the people of the world
genuinely want peace so much that one of
these days governments had better get
out of their way and let them have it
but if you've read the United States
history the people almost always wanted
peace and the leaders almost always
found a way to get us to go to war we
are in fact a very warlike nation I know
we like to talk about peace but we do
war once a year for 200 years now being
a nation we put our troops into other
countries to force them to our will we
fought 15 major Wars we spent 50 years
at war the average amount of time
between the end of one war in the
beginning of the next one is 10 years
the American people have been taught to
hate and fight successively the Seminole
Indians the Cherokee Indians of Mexico
twice the Plains Indians of Filipinos
the Spanish and Cubans the Germans
Koreans Vietnamese and now the
Nicaraguan
and each war there's been the
orchestration of public opinion to
support the war effort and each war have
been eventually triggers that galvanized
the national interests that we would go
plunging in it's very hard for you to
see this while you're leaving living at
people are saying now there's no
those important people brightfeet
Colonel what's the cannon at the CBI in
Washington analyzing Nicaragua and
saying if they got the plans there but
they'll never be able to do it the
politics they just can't sell it in this
environment but 15 presidents before
have in fact sole the nation on Wars and
there's no reason Reed Howard Zinn's
book of people's history of the United
States it goes back and treats every one
of these wars giving the quotes of the
leaders for they said for example in the
Mexican War they wanted to go down there
and fight
why I'll tell you in a minute they
offered $2 a head they rolled through
Congress for every man who would go down
the list you know the go down and fight
wasn't enough so they offered a hundred
acres for everybody would go and fight
and come back and they got a few takers
but it wasn't enough so they sent
general Taylor down roll up and down the
other side the internationally
recognized border until the Mexicans
fired on a provocation and the Mexicans
fired on and in the headlines were
Mexicans killing our boys in Texas and
the nation rose up and we went out and
fought and we annexed Texas New Mexico
Arizona part of Colorado in the state of
California triggers the battleship Maine
Lusitania Pearl Harbor the Bay of
Tontine just to cite a few each one
dramatic events that galvanized the
American opinion to get us to go down in
flight
once again you can read for yourself and
each war people have resisted 30,000
people jailed during the Civil War for
protesting the war 6,000 people jail
during World War one for protesting the
war Kate Richard O'Hara says in 1915 a
woman of the United States are nothing
but brood cells producing funds to be
put in the army to be made into
fertilizer and she was jailed for five
years for anti-war talk so we look
around our society today it's been 21
years since the bay of tom kean 13 years
since we got our troops out of Vietnam
we're over again the bicycle wheel has
gone around the BAL stones coming back
down to the ground so you say is this
nation getting itself ready for war one
could conclude that we likely would be
because of the cycle and it's come back
again
and so what you see when you start
looking for it at militarization of the
society at every level glorification of
of war Olive jab camouflage chic and the
airports you'll see kids nowadays with
olive drab diaper covers in the bike
store the other day I saw camouflage
bicycles with camouflage helmets being
sold to kids glorification of war
everywhere beginning with the president
we begin our war conditioning at the age
of two when we put our kids in front of
the one-eyed babysitter and hit the
button and turn it on and they watch
episode after episode every day of
Sheena and he-man and the Thunder caps
and the Transformers in the Decepticons
and now there's a Rambo series and every
one of these nice little people being
attacked by evil forces until they rise
up you know and and put them off at the
last minute it's estimated that by the
time one of us graduates from high
school we've seen more violence more
hours of violence on television than we
spent sitting in classrooms
propagandistic event you have a force of
Russians Cubans and Nicaraguans have
invaded the United States and they get
all the way to Colorado where they
finally stopped by the high school
football team
most of the football players would get
draft deferments because they could show
they had a pinched nerve or chipped
something or other and therefore they
couldn't qualify to go out and get
killed in a real war situation the
Grenada invasion America feeling great
again a fraud a scam nothing great about
this country stomping on a little bitty
country that's eight miles by 16 miles
with 80,000 people with two fully armed
rifle company units if you want to talk
about Grenada and the question and
answer I'll be happy to the bombing of
Libya stirring all of the primeval
emotions in Americans breasts on a basis
last spring of the terrorist scam I
presume everybody in this room would be
perceptive enough to understand and to
seen immediately through the terrorist
scam and what the bombing of Libya was
all about if not bring it up in the
question actor and we'll talk about a
little bit rewriting the history of the
Vietnam War so the kids coming out of
high school are taught that our cause
was just some people in the States
didn't understand so Henry Kissinger to
keep the peace he engineered and
honorable withdrawal and gotta sell
nothing to do with what really happened
but see we don't teach our own children
they taught in the schools and they're
being taught that our cause was just in
Vietnam and that we should have seen it
through and rewriting the legal codes of
the United States seriously to curtail
the freedoms of press and assembly and
such that I fought worse for to defend
that we thought we've been taught made
our country unique that too takes a
little bit to get through it if you want
to ask about it later I'll just point
out what I'm sure you're all up on ed
Meese California mr. Reagan's closest
friend he made him Attorney General this
man is now touring the country saying
the Constitution never did guarantee
freedom of speech and press and assembly
he says that's a myth all of this that's
happening now it's happened before in
our history but what's happening right
now is made possible because of mr.
Reagan political phenomenon charming
handsome charismatic especially popular
with young men young men 18 to 24 a
draft age traditional age of cannon
fodder voted for this man and greater
more percentages than anyone else in the
society
now there's an irony in that that we
should take note of because in fact mr.
Reagan has a documented record of not
being sympathetic to young men but we're
not irrational people we don't read we
don't think we don't advise ourselves we
let our drilling junction and we respond
and generation after generation and it
goes marching off to war a rational
person who's being asked to go out
somewhere and die or kill people would
think a little bit
who's asking me what kind of people are
they read a book inform yourselves mr.
Reagan to note the Appa obvious as a
history of
glamourizing war he claims he's seen
four wars but he saw those four wars
from Hollywood where he was the handsome
captain you know you go over Germany and
800 Germans fall down dead and they
shoot back that they can't hit you
because they're too stupid you know and
you come back and you get medals or
you're killed but it's it's a hero's
death and the goose bumps up and down
your spine and then you take shower and
wash off the ketchup and you go out to
dinner and you do it again and this is
this will immense memories of war
terribly dangerous thing because the war
is that I've seen where the bodies were
on the ground just went that way at all
not at all we've got a few others going
around the country of the same ilk
gordon Liddy touring the country saying
to the young people and he's very
articulate he gets some you know
pep rally stamp thousand you know
cheering and yeah whistling he's saying
your uncles and your fathers didn't
understand they didn't understand in the
Vietnam War you understand we have to
fight communists we have to go and stand
up for these people the Soviet Union
understands that the KGB has a role to
play in society this country doesn't
understand that we need you know some
kind of a police discipline and action
of what not one of people cheering
yelling so you ask yourselves if we were
rational in his audience where was mr.
Liddy when this country was fighting
communists and he was young enough to
volunteer and go fight Cummings the
answer is he was hiding out in this
country running sloppy unprofessional
illegal breaking-and-entering operations
for a sleazy politician
if you'll forgive me a bit of egoism at
that same time I was running
professional Breaking and Entering opera
and then you have Rambo himself so let's
just alone making these fabulous movies
where he goes to Vietnam you know and
600 yen amis fall down dead and they
shoot back if they can't hit him because
they're too stupid you know the shoot
straight and he killed them all and
saves everybody and gets out and
everything well if you talk to veterans
who were there they tell you the enemy
shot back real well at pound for the man
for men I found four pound man for man
the 135 pound Yemeni soldier was a
better soldier in the jungle than our
200-pound marine he could walk further
eat less and fight harder that's the
truth but this fantasy mr. Rambo
Sylvester Stallone is playing where was
he and the Vietnam War burry could have
done these things for real the truth is
he got a draft deferment for a physical
disability and he spent the war in
Switzerland teaching physical education
and a girl school getting back to the
problem mr. Reagan I submit to you that
he's the most dangerous man in the
history of the United States
I suggest that he has in fact a
defective mind
now I don't mean to take cheap shots to
note the obvious he's one hell of a
politician greatest politician in the
history of the country perhaps which is
a tribute to the irrationality of the
political process but I don't mean to
take cheap shots I'm gonna try to show
you very quickly what I mean he did in
fact say you could always call back the
cruise missiles now we don't want to
take his statements out of context and
be unfair he said b-52s cruises and
submarines you can always pull a member
you can call that could be fifty two you
can call back a submarine a cruise
missile is programmed to read the
terrain if it goes in at treetop level
it's not programmed to read the reverse
terrain and come back out it does not
have landing gear when it lands it goes
boom I wouldn't want to call one back
Helen Caldicott and her last book she
titled missile Envy she records a
conversation with mr. Reagan his
daughter heard her speak and said you
got to talk to the old man and set it up
and Ellen talked to him in the Oval
Office and she record the conversation
nine things he said indicating he simply
does not understand about missiles and
bombs and things at one point she said
Mr Reagan that's right out of Reader's
Digest and he said no no no that's
classified Defense Department stuff and
his daughter said father that's out of
Reader's Digest he gave a talk to a
group of veterans in New York City and
he told this delightful story of a
bomber that was shot down over Germany
in World War two one of the crew members
was injured wounded he couldn't jump out
the others decided not to leave their
buddy so they all went in together and
crashed and they were all killed
these were veterans including pilots you
know and they said afterwards wait a
minute if the plane crashed and they
were all killed how do we know all these
details about what happened so they
researched it and there was no record of
any such thing happening in World War
two in Germany but it was the plot of a
movie that mr. Reagan had been part of
at that time and then it starts to get
serious to give you a couple of things
that you would be well aware of being
here in California his famous bloodbath
quote in 1970 when he was asked about
the violence the demonstrations on
campuses protesting the Vietnam War and
he said if there has to be a bloodbath
let's get it over with and then to make
sure that he had not been misunderstood
because there was an outcry he said it
again three days later it has to be a
bloodbath he was not talking about a
bloodbath of the enemies getting that
over with he was talking about a
bloodbath of our own young people in our
own country
our own campuses and he was not bluffing
he did pull out the National Guard and
they did shoot people
and then there's his botulism quote when
he was asked about his reaction to the
simian E's liberation Army's demand that
five million dollars in food be given to
the poor as a ransom from Patty Hearst
really and he said it's too bad we can't
arrange a plague of botulism now the
press went to see his speechwriter to
ask if that had been in his notes or
he'd made it up on the spot and his ex
former speechwriter said no sane man
could utter those words but he did mr.
Reagan they says the man had called the
MX the peacemaker this is a man who's
told us that nuclear war is winnable
this is the man who calls the Contras
likens them to our founding fathers this
is the man who says that South Africa is
making great progress towards racial
equality this is the man that says we're
going to put this shield up in space and
missiles will bounce off of it and we
won't have to worry anymore
this is the man who says that you can
increase spending enormous Lee without
increasing taxes and the deficit will
magically disappear this is the man who
went to Iceland recently and in the
course of the conversation stuck out his
hand to mr. Gorbachev and said well if
that's what you want let's do it meaning
getting rid of all whistles and
everything just like that while one may
say that's a great thing the fact is he
had not even conferred with his aides
and assistance in figuring out how to do
it and then afterwards of course he lied
and retracted it the man's mind
literally does not hit on all cylinders
read for yourself read the book of
quotes mcgraw-hill 1979 read there he
goes again Reagan's reign of error read
on Reagan the man in the
presidency by Ronnie Douglas read the
Village Voice article two years ago mr.
Reagan has the historic fixation on
Armageddon over nine times in public
he's talked about the fact that we are
now living out Armageddon we're all
playing our roles in Armageddon the
difference of course is that he's the
one with the finger on the button that
can make it all happen what makes him so
ultimately dangerous is the fact that he
is so superficial and also he does not
identify with young people I have a
young son we live with my parents my
father is mr. Reagan's age he knows he's
not going to be around this planet too
much longer he takes the boy for walks
and plays checkers and dominoes with him
and read stories to him because the boy
is the continuation of life mr. Reagan
has the young grandson that he has never
seen held hug bounced on his knee
last spring they made a big deal in the
press when mr. Reagan went to see his
grown son dance the professional dancer
danced for the first time ever
where was daddy for 22 years when this
boy was growing up doing all of his
rehearsals and programs and becoming a
pro and all that the answer his daddy
could care less until the boy was a man
performing as a man in an adult world
mr. Reagan does not identify with young
people he fantasized he talks about the
fact that we are all living out our
rules as the goat Armageddon as he fails
as his jump joints creak as it's all
coming to an end for him he fantasizes
that we're all going out together this
is what I mean when I say this is the
most dangerous man in the history
the world he functions to appeal to
Americans irrationality you don't have
to worry about nuclear war you don't
have to worry about the environment if
you've seen one redwood tree you've seen
them all and it's not gonna be here in
20 years anyway so chop them down and
use them up and don't worry about it
because we're living out Armageddon and
the point is he is appealing for people
not to think and not to be responsible
and that's a great relief to him and
that's why they cling to him with such a
fashion and that's what makes him so
dangerous you've got to be screaming why
why do we do these things why do we have
the system that we do before mr. Reagan
got into office and if we survived him
afterwards
why didn't go to war be 10 years why is
the CI had been permitted to run 10,000
brutal covert actions why do we
destabilize a third of the countries in
the world today why are our leaders
taking us into another war
why we systematically taught to hate and
fight anybody
the answer is lion aggression and
economic macho aggression paranoia these
are you know the adrenaline factor the
football pep rally factor these are the
easiest ways the easiest buttons to
reach in a human breath to push to get
people bravo Bravo all of me into combat
and there's lots more money to be made
through war and a machinery of war than
there is through peace the profits and
political gain from military production
and spending are enormous as you well
know the CDI says we're spending 61
cents of every tax dollar on the
military the Washington Post puts the
figure of 53 cents that still over half
of our taxes are going to this giant
military burden we're carrying we're in
the process under mr. Reagan in this six
year period of time was spending 2.25
trillion dollars on arms 435 billion of
that is to build and deploy 17,000 new
nuclear weapons the military ripoffs of
Forrester classic and enormous I'm
talking about $300 for a hammer $700 for
a toilet seat that should cost $18
$7,600 for a coffee pot 1040 $3 for a
little steel bolt that you can buy for
25 cents in a hardware store and God
knows how much money for the reinforced
concrete you know silos in which they
put em X's and man and Minutemen
and whatnot the military-industrial
complex makes 35% profit
Davidge norm for society and free in the
industry is less than a third of that
and this is why they're clinging to that
this is why they set up a system the
profits are so gigantic they don't want
to build universities and schools and
streets and hospitals because you only
make X a finite amount of profit on that
but by scaring the American people by
destabilizing the world having the CI CI
out there killing millions of people by
creating a hostile world that has good
reason to hate our guts and in showing
the American people the proof of the
hostility and was being fought
everywhere then we will let them spend
any amount of money on arms and that's
how the system works Nicaragua is only
the current designated enemy we've
attacked Cuba we've attacked Vietnam
we've attacked the Congo we've attacked
Angola designating enemies regularly in
order to work the people up and focus
our paranoia so we'll give them a blank
check to spend these enormous amounts of
money on armed now the conservative
argument is that this has worked for 200
years to make this the greatest country
in the history of the world so why
change it this argument goes that you
know life started on the belt in Africa
with a strong eating the weak that every
form of life has to eat another form of
life to survive that's a fact it may be
a little bit harsh but if people have to
die by the thousands in Chile or
Nicaragua for us to be strong and safe
up here that's the way it is and tough
and so be it but even if you're
harsh enough that
you don't care about the morality of
that argument you still got a problem
this arms race the destabilization of
the world still won't work to your own
safety and security the economics of
this thing it's breaking the United
States we have giant budgetary and trade
deficits the United States is that
debtor nation now internationally for
the first time since World War one and
our own internal debt is now staggering
proportions it's gone from 900 billion
to two point four trillion dollars under
mr. Reagan in the last six years alone
the capital and technology that are
absorbed into the military are not spent
building trade goods so we are no longer
competitive Japan Taiwan Singapore Hong
Kong and the European countries
rebuilder burdened economy by Lloyd
Dumas but out this last summer he
estimates that if we reversed the arms
race right now we might not be able to
recover our economic supremacy in the
world and since we're not reversing it
we are certainly on a decline and a
question as he puts it is if a slow
decline or sudden collapse that we're
facing because of this giant burden were
carrying the other reason why we can't
cling to the rationales that we used in
the Mexican War and the Seminole Indian
War and whatnot is these nuclear weapons
the nuclear state of the world the
52,000 soon to be 70,000 bombs a world
where we have cruise missiles and
Pershing twos in Europe that can hit
Russia in seven minutes time so the
Russians will have four minutes warning
when they see missiles coming on their
radar screens and wish to call us and
say is this a mistake or should we
launch all of our missiles we used to be
told not to worry about these things
because they were failsafe but they
don't talk about this very much anymore
just think a minute last year alone the
Challenger 2 blew up a Delta rocket two
titans of Frenchie Aryan the Chernobyl
plant and a Soviet ss-18 and it wasn't a
bad year
the year before that there were 285
million dollar satellites went tumbling
in space at 65 million dollar a launch
had to be destroyed as it took off from
Cape Canaveral Soviet cruise missile
went tooling over Norway Pershing to
blow up on its pad in Germany Texas
Instruments was found to be selling
faulty chips to the 80 defense
contractors bombs have fallen out of
plane five times at least one over Spain
one off the coast of Portugal two in the
Carolinas one in Nevada one of those in
the Carolinas five of the six safety
devices blue one more and we would have
had a bomb right there the other one in
the Carolinas they never found it landed
in the swamp so they bought the land and
fenced it all and called it a
nuclear-free zone or nuclear restricted
area until today submarines five
submarines have disappeared into the
ocean and when they go down one of them
just last month and when they go down in
deep water they implode so we have those
dozens of nuclear weapons floating
around on the bottom of the ocean now
rusting if that's where they are because
some of these there was no record they
didn't report in suddenly boom they're
gone so we have to presume they're down
there as opposed to someone capturing
and stealing what's at stake with all of
this is the fate of the earth what's at
stake is your lives and mine our
children for the young people the right
the opportunity to grow a little older
and have children of your own and those
children have a world to grow up in
what's at stake of course is the unborn
generations of the human race that may
never have a chance to be because of our
foolishness you have to be saying what
can we do if we're up against the
industrial or military industrial
complex of the United States and England
and France and Germany and Russia and
the whole world what can we do and the
answer is it's a tough one without any
question the greatest challenge that's
ever faced the human right
but we have to try because of what's at
stake so you look around for glimmers of
hope has anything ever been done that
would equate that we could seize upon
and you find on a war was fought and
slavery was abolished in this country
and then a hundred years civil rights
struggle until we got the country to a
point where the KKK could not Lynch
people with impunity and then there are
less gory example the women's movement
eighty years ago only a man could put
his wife and sisters and daughters to
work in factories twelve hours a day
seven days a week and he could pocket
their salary saying only the man is wise
enough to know how to spend the money
and that's been changed a little bit now
plainy gift from on high but by the
determined efforts of feminist activists
for eight decays and here's the here's
the catch here's the ringer here's
what's so exciting about that is it was
a peaceful struggle they didn't kill
anybody
and then you have a young professor
Jerry bender at UC San Diego who stopped
my war in Angola he was lecturing he was
trying to organize nothing was happening
so he called up senator Tunney one day
and he said mr. tony i think something
dangerous is being done in angle i think
you're being lied to
I happen to have gotten my thesis in
Angola I think I can straighten it out
for you I want the opportunity to brief
you mr. Tony agreed Gerry briefed him
rationally soberly Tony went back and
examined what he had said and he
introduced the FY 76 amendment to the
defense appropriations bill and stopped
my warning bullet just like that Helen
Caldicott at the end of her lectures
I've heard her say get out and get work
on this problem you'll feel better if
you get to work on it as opposed to
sitting back at home with a knot in your
stomach
when the bombs and missiles are gonna
land on your place or when we're gonna
invade Nicaragua and she says if you do
get out and get to work on it then when
the bombs start going off if there's a
few minutes time before the one lands on
your town at least you'll have the right
to turn to your loved ones and say honey
at least we try no Aladdin Allah Rakha
Fair in Washington Center for defense
information what to ask him because you
know for - I know I said Admiral people
ask me what can I do
it's the old man bright and a bounce
tough you know he's but I love that
question I tell them I don't know you as
individuals I can't tell you what to do
you know yourselves you do what you're
comfortable with if you can write write
letters write telegrams write articles
write books if you can travel go and see
for yourself in Nicaragua or elsewhere
you can organize organize he said if you
feel comfortable sitting down in front
of trucks with bombs on them sit down
and some trucks with bombs on them but
he said you got to do what you feel
comfortable doing every day of your life
beginning today you can't wait until
December when this happens or next
spring when you graduate or next fall
when you're divorced or whatever because
those missiles could be on their way
right now tonight or tomorrow or next
week there may not be a world here by
the time you graduate or get promoted or
whatever next year thank you very much
for hearing me out
the thought was it usually is that we
could do discussion debate comments
whatever afterwards and there's
certainly plenty of time for a while
anyway so why don't we make it into a
formal yes I love that question
he said I'm saying these things and he
admires that don't I ever worry that the
CIA might not be so enthusiastic about
what I'm doing am I scared I feel it
comes up all the time I feel like you
know the uncle who's got heart disease
at every family get-together people come
up and say well aren't you worried you
know about your heart you know and he's
sitting there every living moment he's
thinking about his tickers about to blow
on him and of course if I come here and
tell you the documentation right in our
own record of how they've killed
millions of people I have to be aware of
them of the Jeopardy and what I do yes
however let me point out that if they
run my car off the road I'm just gonna
get there a little bit before you will
if we don't stand up and make a dramatic
change there's not very many people in
this room we're gonna die of old age or
to put it another way you each have you
go home tonight and get out your
dictionary and get a good heart eraser
and erase safe and secure take it out of
the dictionary so there's nobody in this
world with 52,000 soon-to-be 70,000
nuclear weapons that is in any way safe
my biggest concern if y'all will forgive
me this is a little bit crass but my
biggest concern is when they get me to
get me and how it happens or whatever
you know and there are lots of other
speaking out and I'm just another one
trying to do the best
can my biggest problem is economic
survival I gave up my paycheck I didn't
I didn't get fired and I didn't return I
quit to go public and we have
successively lost house car savings
moved in with my parents and then for
the last four years we go down about ten
thousand a year from what we can make
lecturing and the cost of running this
whole thing and I'm faced with the very
real prospect of being put out of
business just by the you know go to work
in an automobile store or something and
I think this would be regrettable
especially right now with the war in the
offing and Central American and if their
arms race with the threat that it is and
the only way I can think of I've been to
every Center in this nation every piece
fund and there's none of them gonna
touch an ex-cia Colonel they just they
love me they'll take me to lunch and
that's the size of it I don't blame them
I understand the realities universities
they get money from the Defense
Department so they're not gonna put me
on as a lecturer although I might be
able to teach an interesting course in
government what I'm trying to do is
people have have encouraged me as I'm
trying to set up God knows we don't need
another Center or fund or foundation of
any kind but I am trying to set up a
small nonprofit office that would one
make it possible for me to bridge this
10,000 year you know it's not a lot of
money it's about what a secretary makes
our first year in fact less less than a
first year schoolteacher makes in Texas
if we can raise that if we could get a
thousand people around the nation each
putting in 10 or 20 dollars a year it
would make the difference to keep us
functional and I'm trying to put
together this office it would do things
like supporting my lectures I organize
big bike rides in the summer to protest
the nuclear arms race I take people down
to Nicaragua I organize rallies and
participate in panels and lecture all
the time and so if you have any feelings
about this and you would like to join
this little thing and support it write
me and let's do it yes sir
yes the question is would I the question
is would I say how my book was censored
by the CIA when I wrote the book there
was no law against such books now it
would be illegal mr. Regan you know
getting the government off the people's
back has passed laws making such books
of felony now they didn't have any laws
to punish me with so they sued at the
same time Frank's nips book came out in
his book was too much ahead of mine so
they sued him and they didn't accuse him
of revealing secrets they just said that
if you've worked for the government you
have a fiduciary responsibility not to
attack the government and they accused
him of writing an unauthorized account
of the Vietnam War and that sounds to me
a little bit like a fascist policy or
communist a Russian pun unauthorized
account as opposed to authorized to camp
and they took two hundred thousand
dollars away from him and because he had
a film that a film thing he'd signed as
well in my case by the time they sued me
I'd spent all the money the book made
about 80 some odd thou is actually more
than that now including what they stolen
but I didn't I hadn't signed a film
contract yet so they couldn't get into
that and so it was a little bit less
than mr. snaps what they actually but
I'd spent the money you know four years
ago by eighty foul if you're over
hitting everything you know $10 a year
left so there wasn't anything so I
warded them by by declaring them filing
for bankruptcy and it actually got to be
kind of funny I mean I tried to get some
support to fight him but there was just
no support anywhere because the Supreme
Court had just ruled on the snap case so
you couldn't get any ACLU money to fight
a hot you know spring with the same
Supreme Court and so you know then my my
purpose became survival and that's
forgot to be funny because they sue you
in Washington
you have to fly up to Washington and pay
you know give up your life your family
your car but pay a hotel and for two
years three years while they jerk you
around and a lawsuit taxis and all of
that you know and who can afford that
and they just break you with that and
and they're very conscious of this and
they think it's funny but six six of the
Attorney General Assistant Attorney
General six of the government attorneys
signed the papers against me including
it like I say the deputy assistant so I
filed for bankruptcy down in Texas now
in a bankruptcy litigation all
outstanding lawsuits come under the
bankruptcy which means that they would
have to come down to Austin which meant
that all of a sudden they weren't
pulling my chain I was pulling theirs so
they have to come down to Austin and
check into a hotel and be away from
their families while I stall and delay
all can take you know we like two months
to research this your honor and they're
having to show their auditors why it
should be done to come down to Texas and
live in hotels and charge their
hundred-dollar day per diem for their
whole legal staff suing someone who
didn't have any money is bankrupt and so
all of a sudden like I say it became
quite comical they were sort of backing
and filling and indicated to my
attorneys who are not very good at must
say I loved them they were ACLU but they
certainly were not very dynamic but
nevertheless got that one if he'd lived
too long working with the ACLU and the
sea he would he would go to meetings
he'd come back and spend the first 15
minutes of briefing me telling me what
he said what you know they're really
wonderful people and you got to
understand I Lana she's had lunch with
and they're really nice people and you
know I thought they pigs I mean
you know they were trying to take away
my my life
and and Ida lived with me for a while
and but anyway what they said was that
if he's really broke we won't pursue
this thing but they were afraid that I
might they might drop the case and then
I might sign a million dollar movie deal
and they can look silly
so they attached all future profits by
that time the book had peaked got it was
no longer a best-seller all that had
been it had peaked out so they they they
insisted and they assured us they would
come down to Texas at least long enough
to get a court order that everything
that I earned on that book for the rest
of my life would go to the CIA so to get
the thing away and get on with my life
and write another book I agreed to that
they also put me under court order that
anything I write for the rest of my life
will be submitted for censorship with or
penalty of going to jail without trial
the title of the book was in search of
enemies northern 78 this is the United
States of America and by that but in
addition to it they passed walls since
then so that now it wouldn't be a civil
suit it would be a felony they until it
one of them the intelligence identities
Protection Act 1982 President Reagan
signed it into law no it would be a
felony now yes
hear that
it's a it's a more complicated thing but
it wasn't really a question although
although the work question marks at the
end but he's saying that I had said this
that and the other about the military
industrial complex and everything but I
had not touched on how we're gonna make
a change of all this and more radical as
he put it to velocity are we gonna have
to fight to change it I ever gonna have
to have a revolution in this country to
tear apart the system to wrench power
out of the hands now I'm going beyond
what he said of the military-industrial
complex I have some real problems with
that if our if we're teetering on the
brink of exterminating ourselves because
of our propensity to war and we set out
to change it by doing another bloody war
there's a catch-22 we won't have changed
anything and I guess that summarizes the
way I feel about it I don't have any
brilliant answer
I'm pretty cynical about our chances for
changing this thing I do not see I've
got in a big argument with uh I wouldn't
argue it he's too smart Carl Sagan but
at a lecture in Ithaca to tease
Margaret Raymond Gibson the wife of Bill
Gibson the playwright and big activist
herself a psychology professor herself
at Harvard she come down to this lecture
and she wants us to be cheerful and
optimistic about all this and so someone
asked me to put a statistic on her
survival chances of you know I you know
so because I knew Christiana talked
about it Carl they I said about a
million 1 million to one against us
making it another 20 or 30 years and she
was scowling at me everything and Carl
Sagan's at one of his cohorts young PhD
came running up afterwards and he said
stop are you right on everything you're
saying but he said it's not a
million-in-one odds he said Carl and
I've talked about this a lot he said it
would be more like a hundred to one and
I said thanks a lot you know I was just
popping something off the top of my head
and and if you if you really thought
about it you know I like my million that
one bitter and I do your hundred to one
but I really mean that we got a big
problem the human I started I say the
human beast sometimes people jump up and
say beast don't do these things to each
other
the human race our history is a history
of war this problem this gordon Liddy
factor it goes back to the caveman days
the hairiest chest and ugly go kill them
before they kill us the testosterone
factor the male hormone go and kill and
it's been throughout history there have
been peaceful people but they didn't
dominate the scene maybe they you know
live their lives and died but history
has also been
after war after war bigger nations
fighting bigger wars now with the
propensity to do ourselves in and we
have not changed this propensity to
violence one bit the world has more wars
being fought now than it ever has and
the United States an open policy of war
and whatnot and it's a catch-22 if we go
out to solve this by effecting a war in
the United States in which God knows
there would be lots of people killed and
repressed and all of that I failed to
see how we would really have a bit
advanced the human races chance for
survival
yep
let me take your question
this gentleman has asked about FEMA the
Federal Emergency Management Agency now
I mentioned to you earlier that the
administration Reagan administration is
rewriting the laws of a land
they call it the Reagan Revolution I'm
not projecting what they would like to
do in my own paranoid lauter or our
perspective of them this is stuff they
have done or they're in the process of
doing which they have told us is their
revolution to have permanent changes in
the way our country operates you know
the Victor Marchetti ruling of the
Supreme Court in 1974 giving the
government the right to free publication
censorship of books Frank SNEP willing
of the Supreme Court gave them the right
to seize profits from books the Phil
Agee passport ruling this is the Iron
Curtain free society that gave the
Secretary of State the right to take
away your passport without a hearing
they don't have to accuse you of nothing
they come and get your passport and you
don't travel except when they agree you
can travel mr. Reagan came into office
and restored the CI to full historical
function and commissioned it to operate
domestically against American citizens
and American citizens groups
intelligence identities Protection Act
in 1982 made it a felony to publish
about the activities of secret agents
their names or their activities that
would draw attention to them and what
does this mean a debate about this thing
yes you for example found agent smith
and jones in your community here
experimenting on you your family your
loved ones with LSD or disease it would
be a felony for you to write articles in
your local paper saying watch out for
these two turkey smith and jones they're
experimenting on us for disease
now in that MKULTRA thing that went on
for 20 years in 200 medical schools and
mental hospitals when it was closed down
when the congress got into it and there
was now crying it was closed down not
one person was punished one person went
to jail not one person lost a single
paycheck for having experimented on
american citizens with disease and drug
now if you had for example c space
organization here just to pick one oh
and you found that in your midst your
vice chairman smith was a federal agent
and was advocating that you go blow up a
federal building this is a technique
that they used in the civil rights
movement to anti Vietnam War days you
penetrated a group you get the group to
go blow something up then they become an
illegal organization and the society
turns against them and you can go
against him openly more powerfully now
you would not be permitted to publish in
your own internal ceased best Bulletin
an article saying vice-chairman Smith
who is advocating blowing up the federal
building is a federal agent trying to
describe it like I say not
Nazi Germany Soviet Union these are laws
that they have passed in this country
today mr. Reagan's efforts which he is
not succeeded yet but he still pursues
the policy of muzzling government
employees anybody who's ever worked for
the government would have to submit that
anything they wrote the rest of their
lives to six offices of censorship and
as the other one was that everybody who
worked for the government would have to
submit to a lie-detector test and that
one crashed when mr. Schultz said not me
the day comes they don't trust me I'll
quit and I'm sure young people below his
rank might feel the same way and it
might be downright ludicrous if somebody
was to put mr. Reagan why you take
the grenade operation exclusion of the
press from Grenada putting out over
national television what the Army's
PSYWAR office had filmed of what was
happening in Grenada and they did not
film the truth
the seidel Commission after Grenada
agreeing that in the next invasion there
would be a press pool New York Times
everybody would put up and you know reps
who would go in with the landing force
and would publish through the landing
force commanders
telegraph offices you know accounts that
were sensor but accounts of the landing
force of what was happening the
preemptive strikes bill secretary
Schulte submitted this in 1984 he did
not succeed in selling it they haven't
retracted it they submitted it in
different forms getting congressmen and
Senators to submit it since then this is
the one where he said that terrorism is
such a threat that we have to have
special laws to cope with it that we
have to be able to go in and strike
preemptively against people who are
preparing to strike ie as they say if
you know somebody's about to bomb my
embassy you ought to be able to go in
and hit them first but we don't need a
law to do that we do it anyway we
invaded Grenada and we bombed Libya and
we blew up people in the Middle East but
you see this bill that he submitted
would make this legal in the United
States as well and in his defense of it
he said that the Secretary of State
should have the authority to put
together a list of known terrorists
suspected terrorists and terrorist
sympathizers and if your name is on the
list you would not be permitted to go to
court to sue to have your name taken off
the list now and if your names on the
list they could kick in your door and
kill you with impunity now the New York
Times was screaming that this was and
everybody else in the nation just about
that this was no different from Hitler's
night and fog program pulling people
away into the night and fog but
secretary Schultz didn't withdraw it
he's still pressing for it in different
forms on October the 26th 1984 giving a
speech in New York